						 22C: 196: 001 Peer-to-peer Networks
                        Total points = 100 (worth 30% of your grades)
                        Assigned February 18, 2010, due May 6, 2010

This is a first draft of the projects. Pick a project topic, form a team of two persons, and start working. At
the end, you need to write a report, and arrange a demonstration of your work if appropriate. The length of
the report should be similar to that of a conference paper (10-15 pages), and it must document all your
activities, along with a list of relevant references. Do not include codes, but you can put them on your
webpage, with a citation containing the URL of the link.

You have to report and present interim progress in the class.

PeerSim (http://peersim.sourceforge.net/ ) is a free, multi-threaded, discrete event simulator to
evaluate, investigate, and explore peer-to-peer protocols. PeerSim runs in several UNIX-like
operating systems. Its goal is to make the understanding peer-to-peer protocol source code easy,
to facilitate easy comparison of different protocols, and to have a reasonable performance for the
simulation runs. PeerSim already supports Chord, Accordion, Koorde, Kelips, Tapestry, and
Kademlia. These implementations are specific to PeerSim, and consist of substantially fewer lines
of code than the real implementations.

After the P2P network is built, the system should be able to output the following information:

- The number of nodes and edges in the P2P network.

- The ID, node degree and coordinates of any node in the P2P network.

- The 1-hop neighbor nodes of any node in the P2P network.

- The overlay route and the underlying physical route between any two nodes in the P2P network.

Study the tools for network configuration. The simulator has the following functionality:

(a) It can accept an input file, and place it (deterministically or randomly) on one or more nodes
in the P2P network.

(b) It can issue a query message from any node to search a file in the P2P network. The query is
configured with a TTL value. The query is broadcast to all neighbors. When a node receives a
query, it searches the local "file list" file. If there is a match, then it generates and sends a hit
message back to the source node that issued the query. If the file cannot be found in the local file
list, then the query is forwarded to all the neighbors except the one sending the query. The hit
message is sent back via reverse path routing. To make it possible, each node maintains a routing
table that maps the message ID to its sender.

       Try out the simulator and its functionalities. Issue a query from any node in the network
and retrieve a file. No specific interface is necessary. You may implement it either with GUI or
with simple text modes.

Project 1: Experiment with Gnutella

Use PeerSim or some other tool to generate graphs of size up to n > 5000 nodes. Arrange to
randomly place copies of 20 files – each file should be placed at 0.1% to 1% of the peers. 

Now, run various search algorithms 
(a) using Gnutella-type flooding 
(b) using the random walker model 
(c) using 1-hop replication. 

In each case, compute the search time from multiple trials, as well as the total number of nodes 
visited to locate the object. Then compare the performances of the two search algorithms. 
Add explanations about your findings.

       The project report should be (a) a user manual of your simulator, introducing how your
project compiles and runs. All the functionalities described above should be implemented in your
project and introduced in your project report. (b) The source code - remember to provide a
Makefile to automatically build your project. (c) Executable files of your project. Your project
must be self-contained. So please include all the files necessary for your project to work well.


